# Data Analysis of Crime in San Francisco (2018)
This is my very first data project.  
It was a team project completed during my data analytics apprenticeship. Me and 3 other teammates used a large dataset to help our client, the San Francisco Police Department, use their extra funding to generate recommendations that would reduce crime. The large dataset (26 columns, 150000+ rows) included quantitative and qualitative crime data relating to date, time, place, types/categories, resolution status.  
Our team examined the dataset and collaboratively brainstormed what main data points we wanted to cover that address the client's needs. Initially, using Microsoft Excel, we created pivot tables with the data to provide a rough guidance on what main points of the data were going to be used.  
We cleaned the data with Microsoft Excel and using filter functions to assess for blank cells, misspellings, and duplicates. Afterwards, we used Tableau to create 13 visualizations that related to our data observations (ex. patterns, trends), insights (what could possibly explain these observations), and final client recommendations.
Our team put lots of thought into making sure our main points were clear, cohesive, and concise into a single slideshow on Google Sheets. We ultimately covered observations and insights related to crime date/time, categories/subcategories, location, and resolution status. External resources were used but we limited our use of them.  
The data project was presented with attention to communication to ensure internal and external team members would clearly understand.
